---
permalink: /GSSI-2025
hidden: true
classes: wide
# layout: single-hf
# layout: single
layout: default
title: "GSSI Lecture 2025"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /GSSI-2025
  - /GSSI-2025.html
---

## Time Series Anomaly Detection, Graduate Course (Summer school on Artificial Intelligence for Aerospace - GSSI, L'Aquila, Italy)

### Lecture 1: Time-Series Anomaly Detection: Overview and New Trends

*Anomaly detection is an important problem in data analytics with applications in many domains. 
In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in anomaly detection tasks applied to time series. 
In this talk, we take a holistic view of anomaly detection in time series, 
starting from the core definitions and taxonomies related to time series and anomaly types, 
to an extensive description of the anomaly detection methods proposed by different communities in the literature. 
We will then present new benchmarks capturing diverse domains and applications for the purpose of evaluating anomaly detection methods. 
We will then conclude on Ensembling and Model Selection for time series anomaly detection, 
discussing different strategies applicable to automatically selecting the appropriate methods for a specific time series.* 

*The slides of this lecture can be found [here](https://inriafr-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/paul_boniol_inria_fr/EXQeccpl6YtAtYkP_2qVJ0YBxTis-26vYHzx8FQLQdv1vQ).*


### Lecture 2: A deep dive into time series anomaly detection evaluation measures

*Anomaly detection is a fundamental task for time-series analytics with important implications for the downstream 
performance of many applications. In contrast to other domains, where anomaly detection mainly focuses on point-based 
anomalies (i.e., outliers in standalone observations), anomaly detection for time series is also concerned with range-based 
anomalies (i.e., outliers spanning multiple observations). Nevertheless, it is common to use traditional point-based 
information retrieval measures, such as Precision, Recall, and Fscore, to assess the quality of methods by thresholding 
the anomaly score to mark each point as an anomaly or not. However, mapping discrete labels into continuous data introduces 
unavoidable shortcomings, complicating the evaluation of range-based contextual and collective anomalies. In this talk, we 
will dive into the existing evaluation measures to properly compare anomaly detection methods for time series. Finally, we 
will discuss how evaluation measures can be compared and evaluated.* 

*The slides of this lecture can be found [here](https://inriafr-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/paul_boniol_inria_fr/ERxKYf9QFVlKrHlN0Mn9abcBfKjwNlD-bktUw6ik66QSOw)* 
